Licensing the code for generating the blog
==========================================

The code used to generate this website, usually found in `generator` but not
limited to that directory, is licensed under BSD-3 license, reproduced below.

Copyright 2018 Mihai Maruseac

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Licensing the articles, the CSS, etc
====================================

The text of the articles and all auxiliary materials, including, but not
limited to, code, images, graphics, CSS, javascripts snippets, animations, etc.
is licensed under [CC-BY-SA 3.0 US](cc-by-sa).

In short, you are free to copy and redistribute any material listed under this
section and free to remix, transform and build upon the material for any
purpose, including commercial purposes.

A full text of the CC-BY-SA license that is applicable to this section can be
found [online](cc-by-sa-legalese).

[cc-by-sa]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/
[cc-by-sa-legalese]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode
