---
date: 2018-07-04
title: About me
postid: 2
---

Welcome. I am Mihai Maruseac, also known as _MM_.

I studied Computer Science at University POLITEHNICA of Bucharest (UPB) where
I finished my undergrad by focusing on compilers, operating systems and AI.
Then, I did a Masters in Artificial Intelligence at the same University. I
concluded my education with a PhD in Differential Privacy from University of
Massachusetts Boston (UMass Boston, UMB). Although all of these programs where
majoring in Computer Science, there was a deep focus on Mathematics and this
has led to people thinking that I have a minor in Mathematics. However, there
are a lot of areas there where I am still a novice but I'm exploring them,
part of the reason why I have this blog. I also have a significant background
in Physics which I sometimes use in my work.

My main interests are Artificial Intelligence and Data Mining/Data Science,
Differential Privacy (DP), and Functional Programming -- with more
than 95% of the focus on Haskell. I tend to use and promote Open Source
software, being a Linux user for more than 10 years -- Fedora user for the
last half of it -- and using Vim to edit anything.

Currently I am living in Bay Area. Outside of the day-to-day work at my job, I
am involved in the Haskell community being the editor of the Haskell
Communities and Activities Report (HCAR) and being a member of the
stackage-curator and stack-curator teams. I sometimes contribute to the Stack
Haskell build tool and I intend to invest more time in contributing to other
Haskell projects too. I am also member of the ROSEdu and Softbinator Romanian
IT communities.

Besides the Computer Science, Mathematics and Physics interests, I also have a
passion for History, some Philosophy, books and movies. Sometimes I play
boardgames, preferring the strategy-based games to the random-chance ones. I
used to play the _Pardus_ space-oriented online game where I tried to use data
science to extract features about the evolution of that world. That resulted
in players giving me the nickname of _Mathman_ which somehow also got outside
the game. Nevertheless, in presence of technical people, I prefer not to use
it as I still have a lot to learn in that field.

In the remainder of this article, I will post a list of all the publications I
have, relevant achievements and other online profiles where people can find me
and I am active.

TODO
